catalysts for oxygen reduction and evolution reactions are at the heart of key renewable - energy technologies including fuel cells and water splitting . despite tremendous efforts , developing oxygen electrode catalysts with high activity at low cost remains a great challenge . here , we report a hybrid material consisting of Co3O4 nanocrystals grown on reduced graphene oxide as a high - performance bi-functional catalyst for the oxygen reduction reaction ( ORR ) and oxygen evolution reaction ( OER ) . although Co3O4 or graphene oxide alone has little catalytic activity , their hybrid exhibits an unexpected , surprisingly high ORR activity that is further enhanced by nitrogen doping of graphene . the Co3O4 / N - doped graphene hybrid exhibits similar catalytic activity but superior stability to Pt in alkaline solutions . the same hybrid is also highly active for OER , making it a high - performance non-precious metal - based bi-catalyst for both ORR and OER . the unusual catalytic activity arises from synergetic chemical coupling effects between Co3O4 and graphene .
the prohibitive cost of platinum for catalyzing the cathodic oxygen reduction reaction ( ORR ) has hampered the widespread use of polymer electrolyte fuel cells . we describe a family of non-precious metal catalysts that approach the performance of platinum - based systems at a cost sustainable for high - power fuel cell applications , possibly including automotive power . the approach uses polyaniline as a precursor to a carbon-nitrogen template for high - temperature synthesis of catalysts incorporating iron and cobalt . the most active materials in the group catalyze the ORR at potentials within similar to <nUm> millivolts of that delivered by state - of - the - art carbon - supported platinum , combining their high activity with remarkable performance stability for non-precious metal catalysts ( <nUm> hours at a fuel cell voltage of <nUm> volts ) as well as excellent four - electron selectivity ( hydrogen peroxide yield < <nUm> % ) .
